content/bioware/mass-effect/appendix.md, before:

---
title: "Appendix"
weight: 4
type: docs
description: >
  FAQ, Resources, Credits.
---

## FAQ

> Can I use this guide with a pirated copy of Mass Effect 1?

No. Neither myself nor any of the mod or tool authors will support pirated copies of the game. You are also risking crashes and other issues. Just buy the game.

> Can I use this guide with the old disc copy of Mass Effect 1?

I have no idea. I assume that it should work fine.

> Can I play Mass Effect 1 on Ultrawide / 21:9?

Theoretically it should be possible to play Mass Effect 1 with a 21:9 aspect ratio using [Flawless Widescreen](https://www.flawlesswidescreen.org/) and [Mass Effect Ultrawide](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/126). However, the former has been reported to cause crashes while the latter is still in beta. There is also the [A Lot of Videos - Unofficial Ultrawide Edit](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/199) which is several versions behind the main mod.

*I do not own a 21:9 monitor so I'm unable to test these mods or write instructions for them.*

> Crash on launch - application load error 5.

Try launching the game directly through Steam. I was unable to get it running through ME3TMM myself.

Some people reported this issue when the game was not installed in the default directory (`C:\Program Files x86\Steam`) and fixed it by moving the game back to the default Steam game library. Other fixes include running the game in Windows XP compatibility mode or installing [NVIDIA PhysX Legacy drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/physx/physx-9-13-0604-legacy-driver/).

> Can I reach level 60 in my first playthrough?

Not by default. The XP Rescale mod allows you to comfortably gain enough experience to reach max level in one playthrough; however, level 60 is only unlocked with the **Medal of Honor** achievement which is granted after completing a full playthrough. This can be circumvented/unlocked by importing someone else's completed save (some are available on the [Nexus](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/categories/5/)).

## Resources

- [N7 Day Modding Community Showcase 2020](https://youtu.be/jf9JcQMMSls) - *Excellent video showcase of recent major mod updates.*
- [ME3Tweaks Website - Modding Guides](https://me3tweaks.com/guides/) - *Various mod creation guides for all Mass Effect games and more.*
- [Mass Effect Mod Formats](https://me3explorer.fandom.com/wiki/Mod_Formats)
- [SurfCrush's Mass Effect Trilogy Modding Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U05QpMT2Ku37hK0wEhrrn1FzZvN4LhuuIM7o_JQ8zp4/edit#)

## Credits

- Thanks to all the mod authors, tool authors, and guide authors whose work I featured and referenced.
- Thanks to **CreeperLava's** for the incredibly detailed instructions on the [ALOT](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/83) mod page.
- Thanks to **starkgate** for their [NVIDIA Profile Inspector settings guide](https://gist.github.com/starkgate/70b8ee9e45f49d9576451aaee3dae053#file-nvidia-md) for the Mass Effect games.
- Thanks to **u/cristi1990an** for their ["somewhat" comprehensive modding guide](https://www.reddit.com/r/masseffect/comments/6qav4t/no_spoilers_a_somewhat_comprehensive_modding/).
- Thanks to **Aqvilinus** for their guide on [how to simply install DLCs](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=519913125) on Steam.
- Thanks to **eezonaut** for their INI tweaks for [Mako - Improved Controls Mod](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/59).
- Thanks to **Zupremo** for their INI tweaks for [Improved MAKO](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/115).
- Thanks to the **Mass Effect Crew** for organising the [2020 N7 Day Reunion Stream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BjzXCLpgBXE) which got me back into the franchise.

**Please remember to ENDORSE the mods you downloaded on the Nexus.** You can do so directly through ME3TMM by selecting the mods in your library and pressing the "Endorse mod" button.

Commit message:

Update Mass Effect 1 Guide to 1.1

content/bioware/mass-effect/appendix.md, after:

---
title: "Appendix"
weight: 4
type: docs
description: >
  FAQ, Resources, Changelog, Credits.
---

## FAQ

> Can I use this guide with a pirated copy of Mass Effect 1?

No. Neither myself nor any of the mod or tool authors will support pirated copies of the game. You are also risking crashes and other issues. Just buy the game.

> Can I use this guide with the old disc copy of Mass Effect 1?

I have no idea. I assume that it should work fine.

> Can I play Mass Effect 1 on Ultrawide / 21:9?

Theoretically it should be possible to play Mass Effect 1 with a 21:9 aspect ratio using [Flawless Widescreen](https://www.flawlesswidescreen.org/) and [Mass Effect Ultrawide](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/126). However, the former has been reported to cause crashes while the latter is still in beta. There is also the [A Lot of Videos - Unofficial Ultrawide Edit](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/199) which is several versions behind the main mod.

*I do not own a 21:9 monitor so I'm unable to test these mods or write instructions for them.*

> Crash on launch - application load error 5.

Try launching the game directly through Steam. I was unable to get it running through ME3TMM myself.

Some people reported this issue when the game was not installed in the default directory (`C:\Program Files x86\Steam`) and fixed it by moving the game back to the default Steam game library. Other fixes include running the game in Windows XP compatibility mode or installing [NVIDIA PhysX Legacy drivers](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/physx/physx-9-13-0604-legacy-driver/).

> Can I reach level 60 in my first playthrough?

Not by default. The XP Rescale mod allows you to comfortably gain enough experience to reach max level in one playthrough; however, level 60 is only unlocked with the **Medal of Honor** achievement which is granted after completing a full playthrough. Since version 1.1, the guide includes instructions on how to unlock the achievement through the console.

> Crash after selecting class specialisation on Luna.

This happened to me but the game worked fine after restarting it and I got past the selection screen without another crash. YMMV.

## Resources

- [N7 Day Modding Community Showcase 2020](https://youtu.be/jf9JcQMMSls) - *Excellent video showcase of recent major mod updates.*
- [ME3Tweaks Website - Modding Guides](https://me3tweaks.com/guides/) - *Various mod creation guides for all Mass Effect games and more.*
- [Mass Effect Mod Formats](https://me3explorer.fandom.com/wiki/Mod_Formats)
- [SurfCrush's Mass Effect Trilogy Modding Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U05QpMT2Ku37hK0wEhrrn1FzZvN4LhuuIM7o_JQ8zp4/edit#)

## Changelog

### Release 1.0

> 29/11/2020

- Initial Release

### Release 1.1

> 08/12/2020

- Fixed a bunch of oversights reported by Sr Kaio (thanks again!).
- Added **Unlock Levels 51-60** section to the Mod Installation page.
- This includes instructions to enable the console.
- Added **Starting the Game** section to clarify how the modded game can be launched.

## Credits

- Thanks to all the mod authors, tool authors, and guide authors whose work I featured and referenced.
- Thanks to **CreeperLava's** for the incredibly detailed instructions on the [ALOT](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/83) mod page.
- Thanks to **starkgate** for their [NVIDIA Profile Inspector settings guide](https://gist.github.com/starkgate/70b8ee9e45f49d9576451aaee3dae053#file-nvidia-md) for the Mass Effect games.
- Thanks to **u/cristi1990an** for their ["somewhat" comprehensive modding guide](https://www.reddit.com/r/masseffect/comments/6qav4t/no_spoilers_a_somewhat_comprehensive_modding/).
- Thanks to **Aqvilinus** for their guide on [how to simply install DLCs](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=519913125) on Steam.
- Thanks to **eezonaut** for their INI tweaks for [Mako - Improved Controls Mod](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/59).
- Thanks to **Zupremo** for their INI tweaks for [Improved MAKO](https://www.nexusmods.com/masseffect/mods/115).
- Thanks to **Sr. Kaio** for making me aware of a bunch of oversights in the write-up.
- Thanks to the **Mass Effect Crew** for organising the [2020 N7 Day Reunion Stream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BjzXCLpgBXE) which got me back into the franchise.

**Please remember to ENDORSE the mods you downloaded from the Nexus.** You can do so directly through ME3TMM by selecting the mods in your library and pressing the "Endorse mod" button.
