content/tpf-x/installation/new-gear.md, before:

---
title: "New Gear"
weight: 4
type: docs
description: >
  Additional weapons and armors.
---

## Royal Armory

I've been interested in trying Royal Armory by PrivateEye for a long while but was put off by a few rather significant bugs and varying asset quality. Thankfully, these things have been fixed and improved by modders now.

Royal Armory is **optional**. If you choose to install it, install the other two mods as well.

### **[Royal Armory - New Artifacts](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/6994?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory V2.2

### **[PrivateEye's Royal Armory - Reforged](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/28006?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory - Reforged - Main Replacer 1.1
- **Optional Files:** Dragonfang - Penitus Logo >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Hafyllbrand - Custom Textures >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Sword of Dragonsreach - Custom Textures >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Loadscreen Models Update

### **[Royal Armory - New Artifacts Plugin Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44392?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory - Replacer
- **Old Files:** Royal Armory - Replacer Patch Hub

#### FOMOD Instructions - Patch Hub

- **Patches:** Obscure's College of Winterhold - Cell Setting Patch

#### Load Order Instructions

- Place **Royal Armory - OCW CellSettings Patch.esp** below **OCW_CellSettings.esp**.

Commit message:

Quick fix for Royal Armory Plugin Replacer

content/tpf-x/installation/new-gear.md, after:

---
title: "New Gear"
weight: 4
type: docs
description: >
  Additional weapons and armors.
---

## Royal Armory

I've been interested in trying Royal Armory by PrivateEye for a long while but was put off by a few rather significant bugs and varying asset quality. Thankfully, these things have been fixed and improved by modders now.

Royal Armory is **optional**. If you choose to install it, install the other two mods as well.

### **[Royal Armory - New Artifacts](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/6994?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory V2.2

### **[PrivateEye's Royal Armory - Reforged](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/28006?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory - Reforged - Main Replacer 1.1
- **Optional Files:** Dragonfang - Penitus Logo >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Hafyllbrand - Custom Textures >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Sword of Dragonsreach - Custom Textures >> `merge with the main file`
- **Optional Files:** Loadscreen Models Update

### **[Royal Armory - New Artifacts Plugin Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44392?tab=files)**

#### Download Instructions

- **Main Files:** Royal Armory - Replacer

#### FOMOD Instructions

- **Royal Armory:** Royal Armory
- **Patches:**
  - ~~Blue Palace Terrace Patch~~
  - ~~Immersive College of Winterhold Patch~~
  - ~~Obscure's College of Winterhold Patch~~
  - Obscure's College of Winterhold - Cell Setting Patch
  - ~~Palaces and Castles Enhanced Patch~~
  - ~~This is Jorrvaskr - Home of the Companions Patch~~
  - ~~Unique Thane Weapon Patch~~
  - ~~Unique Thane Weapon + Palaces and Castles Enhanced Patch~~

#### Load Order Instructions

- Place **Royal Armory - OCW CellSettings Patch.esp** below **OCW_CellSettings.esp**.
