content/fallout/introduction/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 1
type: docs
no-list: true
description: >
  Welcome to The Phoenix Flavour, a Vanilla-plus Wabbajack setup for Fallout 4.
---

## Overview

The Phoenix Flavour for Fallout 4 is a Wabbajack mod list featuring around 300 mods. In accordance with the vanilla-plus concept, mods were selected to improve existing parts of the game rather than outright replacing them while some aspects were edited more heavily than others. The setup was designed with gameplay-friendly performance in mind and can run at a stable 60FPS on 1440p on reasonably modern hardware.

TPF for Fallout 4 comes with an extensive documentation (of which you are reading the introduction right now) and you are expected to read certain parts, specifically all pages of the **Installation** section. If you decide to use any of the included customisation option, do so only after consulting the **Customisation** pages.

> **Unlike its Skyrim SE counterpart, the Fallout 4 edition of TPF is Wabbajack-exclusive.** There is no manual installation guide and there will likely never be one as I do not have the time to maintain two modding guides.

### Useful Links

- Join us on the official [Phoenix Flavour Discord](https://discord.com/invite/BpwXX5f) for support, feedback, and modding discussions.
- You can find a list of all included mods in my [Google Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Tk_hG2uIKfgWg_E5WluY4OJCF5uyI_9A-_DOWLC8b-E/edit#gid=517612070).
- Check my [Trello Board](https://trello.com/b/7W1seSqA/the-phoenix-flavour-fallout-4) to see all mods considered for inclusion.
- Support me on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/thephoenixflavour) or donate via [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/ThePhoenixFlavour?locale.x=de_DE).

### What is Wabbajack?

Due to the lack of sharing permissions for the vast majority of mods, traditional mod packs do not exist for Bethesda games. With Wabbajack it is possible to recreate one user's mod list on another's computer without directly sharing any of the source files. For more information, please check out the [Wabbajack website](https://www.wabbajack.org/) or join the official [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/wabbajack).

Using Wabbajack is much easier than following a manual installation guide **but it doesn't absolve you from reading.**

## Features

-  Moderately improved visuals while retaining a high frame rate.
-  The weather / ENB combination is True Storms, True Nights, and Subtle ENB.
-  Adventure with Dogmeat and one other companion as originally intended by Bethesda.
-  Many custom file edits and patches for a coherent experience.
-  VIS-based sorting overhaul with a custom keywords resource.
-  Simple implementation of crafting stations with support for included mods.
-  Faster workshop system with better object placement and new stuff to build.
-  Power armors are more rare. Paint and material mods were split.
-  Detailed instructions for the initial setup as well as ingame configuration.

### Not Included

If you are looking for any of the following features, TPF FO4 may not be the mod list for you:

- Silent protagonist.
- Hardcore combat.
- Survival mode.
- Any type of NSFW content.
- New quest mods.
- Mods that are vastly different from the vanilla experience.
- Creation Club support.

At present, TPF FO4 does not include any additional armor or weapon mods with the exception of fadingsignal's K-9 Harness for Dogmeat (can't play without it anymore). Some high quality ones may be included in the future, however.

### Alternatives

- Looking for more quest mods and additional content? Try [Magnum Opus](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=magnum_opus) or [Boston Cream Pie](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=boston_cream_pie).
- Looking for a proper modded setup for Fallout 4 VR? Take a look at the [Fallout 4 VR Essentials Overhaul](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=fo4vre).
- Looking for the ultimate Walking Dead experience in the Commonwealth? Go with [Ghoulout](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=ghoulout).
- Looking for hardcore gameplay on Survival difficulty with Horizon? Check out [Fallout 4 Enhanced Edition](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=fallout_4_enhanced_edition).
- Looking to get into the Sim Settlements mod? Install the [Sim Settlements Experience](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=ssem).

## Recommended Hardware

While TPF FO4 was made for regular gameplay, a *somewhat* modern PC is required to run the setup comfortably. This is due to the bad optimisation of the vanilla game as much as the included mods. Keep in mind that the game will perform much better on 1080p than on 1440p or higher resolutions.

You can see the details of my setup below, sufficient for playing at 1440p with stable 60FPS.

|           | Specs                                         |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | Intel i5 7600K @4.2GHz, hybrid-cooled         |
| GPU       | EVGA GTX 1070 Founder's Edition (8192MB VRAM) |
| RAM       | Corsair Vengeance 16GB DDR4-3200 Memory       |
| SSD 1     | Samsung EVO 850 Series 256GB SSD (OS)         |
| SSD 2     | Samsung EVO 860 Series 1000GB SSD (Games)     |
| Monitor   | LG 27GL850-B UltraGear 1440p @144Hz           |

Commit message:

Update Welcome to Paradise to 1.3

content/fallout/introduction/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 1
type: docs
no-list: true
description: >
  About the list, Welcome to Paradise for Fallout 4.
---

## Overview

**Welcome to Paradise** (WTP) is a Wabbajack mod list for Fallout 4 featuring well over 300 mods. In accordance with the vanilla-plus concept, mods were selected to improve existing parts of the game rather than outright replacing them while some aspects were edited more heavily than others. The setup was designed with gameplay-friendly performance in mind and can run at a stable 60FPS on 1440p on reasonably modern hardware.

WTP comes with an extensive documentation (of which you are reading the introduction right now) and you are expected to read certain parts, specifically all pages of the **Installation** section. If you decide to use any of the included customisation option, do so only after consulting the **Customisation** pages.

> **Unlike its Skyrim SE counterpart, my Fallout 4 setup is Wabbajack-exclusive.** There is no manual installation guide and there will likely never be one as I do not have the time to maintain two modding guides.

### Useful Links

- Join us on the official [Phoenix Flavour Discord](https://discord.com/invite/BpwXX5f) for support, feedback, and modding discussions.
- You can find a list of all included mods in my [Google Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Tk_hG2uIKfgWg_E5WluY4OJCF5uyI_9A-_DOWLC8b-E/edit#gid=517612070).
- Check my [Trello Board](https://trello.com/b/7W1seSqA/the-phoenix-flavour-fallout-4) to see all mods considered for inclusion.
- Support me on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/thephoenixflavour) or donate via [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/paypalme/ThePhoenixFlavour?locale.x=de_DE).

### About the name

Up until release 1.3, the list was simply called "The Phoenix Flavour for Fallout 4" or occasionally just "Phoenix Fallout". This was primarily because yours truly lacked the creativity to come up with a proper name in time for the public release. But a little over a month later I figured one out after all:

**[Welcome to Paradise](https://youtu.be/Olli9bETzXk)** is a beautiful song by [Aviators](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCioNNjH3S7X8byCjPDEqZkA), an American indie musician whom I've loved for many years. The song was written specifically for Fallout 4. He wrote two more Fallout songs, [Apocalypse State of Mind](https://youtu.be/fX5SBZoBiMM) and my personal favourite [Remains](https://youtu.be/aZ1pCyFK_kY) which has enjoyed a permanent spot in many of my playlists for years (unfortunately it wouldn't have made for a fancy list name). All three of his Fallout songs are on the album [Stargazer](https://soundoftheaviators.bandcamp.com/album/stargazers) which you can get on Bandcamp!

## What is Wabbajack?

Due to the lack of sharing permissions for the vast majority of mods, traditional mod packs do not exist for Bethesda games. With Wabbajack it is possible to recreate one user's mod list on another's computer without directly sharing any of the source files. For more information, please check out the [Wabbajack website](https://www.wabbajack.org/) or join the official [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/wabbajack).

Using Wabbajack is much easier than following a manual installation guide **but it doesn't absolve you from reading.**

## Features

-  Moderately improved visuals while retaining a high frame rate.
-  The weather / ENB combination is True Storms, True Nights, and Subtle ENB.
-  Adventure with Dogmeat and one other companion as originally intended by Bethesda.
-  Many custom file edits and patches for a coherent experience.
-  VIS-based sorting overhaul with a custom keywords resource.
-  Simple implementation of crafting stations with support for included mods.
-  Faster workshop system with better object placement and new stuff to build.
-  Power armors are more rare. Paint and material mods were split.
-  Detailed instructions for the initial setup as well as ingame configuration.

### Not Included

If you are looking for any of the following features, **Welcome to Paradise** may not be the mod list for you:

- Silent protagonist.
- Hardcore combat.
- Survival mode.
- Any type of NSFW content.
- New quest mods.
- Mods that are vastly different from the vanilla experience.
- Creation Club support.

At present, WTP does not include any additional armor or weapon mods with the exception of fadingsignal's K-9 Harness for Dogmeat (can't play without it anymore). Some high quality ones may be included in the future, however.

### Alternatives

- Looking for more quest mods and additional content? Try [Magnum Opus](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=magnum_opus) or [Boston Cream Pie](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=boston_cream_pie).
- Looking for a proper modded setup for Fallout 4 VR? Take a look at the [Fallout 4 VR Essentials Overhaul](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=fo4vre).
- Looking for the ultimate Walking Dead experience in the Commonwealth? Go with [Ghoulout](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=ghoulout).
- Looking for hardcore gameplay on Survival difficulty with Horizon? Check out [Fallout 4 Enhanced Edition](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=fallout_4_enhanced_edition).
- Looking to get into the Sim Settlements mod? Install the [Sim Settlements Experience](https://www.wabbajack.org/#/modlists/info?machineURL=ssem).

## Recommended Hardware

While WTP was made for regular gameplay, a *somewhat* modern PC is required to run the setup comfortably. This is due to the bad optimisation of the vanilla game as much as the included mods. Keep in mind that the game will perform much better on 1080p than on 1440p or higher resolutions.

You can see the details of my setup below, sufficient for playing at 1440p with stable 60FPS.

|           | Specs                                         |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | Intel i5 7600K @4.2GHz, hybrid-cooled         |
| GPU       | EVGA GTX 1070 Founder's Edition (8192MB VRAM) |
| RAM       | Corsair Vengeance 16GB DDR4-3200 Memory       |
| SSD 1     | Samsung EVO 850 Series 256GB SSD (OS)         |
| SSD 2     | Samsung EVO 860 Series 1000GB SSD (Games)     |
| Monitor   | LG 27GL850-B UltraGear 1440p @144Hz           |
